content(performance): don't call functions from the template to get data (#97)
typebytes/angular-checklist: content/performance/dont-call-function-from-template.md

  id;

  getName() {
    return this.service.getName(this.id);
  }
}
```

```typescript
@Component({
  template: `
    <button [disabled]="isDisabled()"></button>
  `
})
export class MyComponent {
  isDisabled() {
    return Math.random() > 0.5
  }
}
```

```typescript
@Component({
  template: `
    <li *ngFor="let item of getItems()"></div>
  `
})
export class MyComponent {
  getItems() {
    return this.service.getBooks();
  }
}
```

# Solution

We can help Angular with deciding whether value could change or not in a few ways:

- assign values to component properties
- use OnPush strategy
- use custom pipes

## Assigning values to component properties
Instead of calling a function from the template, we can call it in the component class when needed, and use the value to populate the component property:

```typescript
@Component({
  template: `
    <div>{{ name }}</div>
  `
})
export class MyComponent {
  name;
  private id;

  ngOnInit() {
    this.name = this.getName();
  }

  getName() {
    return this.service.getName(this.id);
  }
}
```

That's why Angular will know the exact value of the property all the time, without any cost of checking that on every Change Detection!

> ## Using OnPush Change Detection strategy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using OnPush change detection strategy
```

> Change Detection strategy describes how Angular should handle Change Detection and DOM rendering. When using OnPush strategy, the function will be called again only if `@Input` properties changes, or if `@Output` emiters are fired or an `Observable` emits new values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The change detection strategy describes how Angular should handle change detection. When using the `OnPush` strategy, change detection only runs if an `@Input` property changes, event are emitted e.g. an `@Output`, or an `Observable` emits new values. Furthermore, change detection can be executed manually via the `ChangeDetectorRef`.
```

> Change Detection strategy describes how Angular should handle Change Detection and DOM rendering. When using OnPush strategy, the function will be called again only if `@Input` properties changes, or if `@Output` emiters are fired or an `Observable` emits new values.

Reviewer: See https://angular.io/api/core/ChangeDetectorRef#!#detectChanges-anchor

```typescript
@Component({
  template: `
    <div>{{ getName() }}</div>
  `,
  changeDetection: ChangeDetectionStrategy.OnPush
})
export class MyComponent {
  @Input() id;

  getName() {
    return this.service.getName(this.id);
  }
}
```

## Using custom pipes

> Pipes by default are pure, which means Angular will execute its `transform` method only on change to the input value.

Reviewer: Newline before.

> Given that example:

Reviewer: Newline before, and:

```suggestion
Here's an example:
```

```typescript
@Component({
  template: `
    <div>{{ id | getName }}</div>
  `
})
export class MyComponent {
  id;
}
```

> As long as the `id` property will stay the same, the pipe won't execute its code again and perform a possibly expensive task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As long as the `id` property doesn't change the pipe won't execute its code again and perform a possibly expensive task.
```

> 

Reviewer: Remove one newline.
